# Doing Science here

The goal of this section of the manual is to clarify our roles and expectations. We are an interdisciplinary, multicultural group with a big variety of backgrounds and academic experience, and it is sometimes unclear what is generally expected of a member in a lab such as ours, as well as what one can expect from the PI. 

## Big Picture

Science is hard. But it’s also fun. In the Neuro group, we want to make sure that everyone experiences a positive, engaging, hostility-free, challenging, and rewarding lab environment. To maintain that environment, we expect each other to:

* **Do work we are proud of individually and as a group**: Work on what you’re passionate about, work hard at it, and be proud of it. Be so proud of it that you have to suppress giggling when you think about it (but it’s still ok to giggle a little).
* **Double-check our work, and be at least a little obsessive**: Don’t rush your work. Think about it. Implement it. Double and triple check it. Incorporate sanity checks. Ask others to look at your code or data if you need help or something looks off. It’s ok to make mistakes, but mistakes shouldn’t be because of carelessness or rushed work. One useful rule of thumb is "do I understand this at 130%" ?
* **Be supportive - we're all in this together:** Support your fellow lab-mates. Help them out if they need help (even if you aren’t on the project), and let them vent when they need to. Science is collaborative, not competitive. Help others, and you can expect others to help you when you need it. In your own work, be independent when possible, but do ask for help when necessary. 
* **Be honest in your science**: We all want to get papers published and do great things. But we do this honestly. It is never ok to plagiarize, tamper with data, make up data, omit data, or fudge results in any way. Science is about finding out the truth, and null results and unexpected results are still important. If you make a mistake, you should immediately tell your collaborators (if they have already seen the results, and especially if the paper is being written up, is already submitted, or already accepted). We admit our mistakes, and then we correct them and move on.
* **Respect each other’s strengths, weaknesses, differences, and beliefs.** Respect your fellow lab-mates. Respect their strengths and weaknesses, respect their desire for quiet if they need it, and for support and a kind ear when they need that. Respect their differences, their culture, their religion, their beliefs, their sexual orientation.
* **Keep everything awesome:** If there is any tension or hostility in the lab, something has to be done about it immediately. We can’t thrive in an environment we aren’t comfortable in, and disrespect or rudeness will not be tolerated in the lab. If you don’t feel comfortable confronting the person in question, tell  your PI. If you have a problem with your PI and are comfortable telling him/her about it, do! If you aren’t comfortable, then tell a senior member of the group (for smaller issues) or another member of the department (for more serious issues).
* **Care your for health and happiness**: Realize that for most of us, there are times for pulling all nighters, and times for leaving early to go to the park and enjoy the sunshine. If you’re struggling, tell someone (feel free to tell your PI !). Your health and happiness come first. The lab looks out for the well-being of all its members. We are here to help. It’s ok to go through hard patches (we all do), but you shouldn’t feel shy about asking for help or just venting.